docs/devices/E1757.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E1757 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1757 via Zigbee2mqtt with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/E1757.md)*

# IKEA E1757

| Model | E1757  |
| Vendor  | IKEA  |
| Description | FYRTUR roller blind |
| Supports | open, close, stop, position |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1757](../images/devices/E1757.jpg) |

## Notes


### Pairing
Short press both buttons on the blind (next to battery lid) for 5 seconds, until a white light between both buttons is turned on.
The device is now awake and ready to pair for 2 minutes.

Keep the CC2531 USB sniffer very close to the blind battery lid, until the white light is turned off (this should mean the pairing is successful).


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
cover:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set"
    position_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    set_position_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set"
    set_position_template: "{ \"position\": {{ position }} }"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.position }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "%"
    device_class: "battery"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.battery }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}

Commit message:

Ikea smart blinds documentation
5 seconds is a long press and document the LED flashing pattern during the pairing process.

docs/devices/E1757.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E1757 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E1757 via Zigbee2mqtt with whatever smart home
 infrastructure you are using without the vendors bridge or gateway."
---

*To contribute to this page, edit the following
[file](https://github.com/Koenkk/zigbee2mqtt.io/blob/master/docs/devices/E1757.md)*

# IKEA E1757

| Model | E1757  |
| Vendor  | IKEA  |
| Description | FYRTUR roller blind |
| Supports | open, close, stop, position |
| Picture | ![IKEA E1757](../images/devices/E1757.jpg) |

## Notes


### Pairing
Long press both buttons on the blind (next to battery lid) for 5 seconds, until a white light between both buttons begins flashing.  Release the buttons and the light will turn off.
The device is now awake and ready to pair for 2 minutes.

Keep the CC2531 USB sniffer very close to the blind battery lid. When the interview process begins the light will begin flashing again. Once the white light stops flashing this should mean the pairing is successful.


## Manual Home Assistant configuration
Although Home Assistant integration through [MQTT discovery](../integration/home_assistant) is preferred,
manual integration is possible with the following configuration:


{% raw %}
```yaml
cover:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    command_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set"
    position_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    set_position_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>/set"
    set_position_template: "{ \"position\": {{ position }} }"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.position }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    unit_of_measurement: "%"
    device_class: "battery"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.battery }}"

sensor:
  - platform: "mqtt"
    state_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/<FRIENDLY_NAME>"
    availability_topic: "zigbee2mqtt/bridge/state"
    icon: "mdi:signal"
    unit_of_measurement: "lqi"
    value_template: "{{ value_json.linkquality }}"
```
{% endraw %}
